Japan's Computer Emergency Response Center (JPCERT/CC) has shared tips on detecting different ransomware gang's attacks based on entries in Windows Event Logs, providing timely detection of ongoing attacks before they spread too far into a network.
JPCERT/CC says the technique can be valuable when responding to ransomware attacks, and identifying the attack vector among various possibilities is crucial for timely mitigation.
The investigation strategy proposed by JPCERT/CC covers four types of Windows Event Logs: Application, Security, System, and Setup logs.
These logs often contain traces left behind by ransomware attacks that could reveal the entry points used by the attackers and their "digital identity."
Here are some examples of ransomware traces highlighted in the agency's report:
JPCERT/CC also notes that seemingly unrelated ransomware variants such as Shade, GandCrab, AKO, AvosLocker, BLACKBASTA, and Vice Society, leave behind very similar traces (event IDs: 13, 10016).
Both errors are caused by a lack of permissions when accessing COM applications to delete Volume Shadow Copies, which ransomware typically deletes to prevent easy restoration of encrypted files.
It's important to note that no detection method should be taken as a guarantee for adequate protection against ransomware, but monitoring for specific logs can prove game-changing when combined with other measures to detect attacks before they spread too far into a network.
JPCERT/CC notes that older ransomware strains such as WannaCry and Petya did not leave traces in Windows logs, but the situation has changed on modern malware, so the technique is now considered effective.
In 2022, SANS also shared a guide on detecting different ransomware families using Windows Event Logs.
MoneyGram: No evidence ransomware is behind recent cyberattack
Highline Public Schools confirms ransomware behind shutdown
US sanctions crypto exchanges used by Russian ransomware gangs
Russian operators of cybercrime money laundering platforms charged in the U.S.
Ransomware attack forces UMC Health System to divert some patients